## Day 1: A Fresh Start

This is day 1 of my 8+ month journy of moving beyond web development.

**Why?**

Because of the to the rapid improvements of AI coding assistance technologies and the increasing amount of people learning web development, it become more and more clear to me that sticking to this one field is a dead end.

<br>

Many of my friends started to learn programming at the same time as me, but we all focused on different areas of coding. Despite hearing many people say that web dev is cooked, I was determined to continue down this path and stand out amongst the thousands of web dev applicants. However, reality shows that this is not the case. My friends with other specializations had had a significantly easier time finding co-op placements despite putting in a similar amount of effort in our learning. It came to a point where it was easier to find a job that required techonologies that I have never learned than to find a PERN stack position.

Because of this, I consulted many professionals in the field and made the conclusion that I would pivot to somethign that not only has less competetion, but is also more interesting.

Big shout out to the most cracked person I ever know, Mr. Liu for the advice. When I felt lost, he opinted me in the right direction with his decades of experience and insights.

<br>

## My Ambitious Approach

I will be learning two things in parallel, and due to my current course load, it shoud be more than feasable. In my case, I would be completing [90 Days of devops](https://github.com/MichaelCade/90DaysOfDevOps) and following the [ML Zoomcamp](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/machine-learning-zoomcamp#syllabus) at the same time.

<br>

This would allow me to learn about key DevOps concepts that are also transferrable for the MLOps field, and then by the time both courses are finished, I will be able to take on the MLOps Zoomcamp and complete my repertoire. The goal of the first two courses in parallel is not to be an expert, but to have literacy in both fields and be ready for MLOps.

<br>
In reality, we all know that these job titles mean nothing, what is important for me is that this teaches me a whole new set of skills, which is working with the cloud. Doesn't matter if the title is devops, cloud engineer, MLOps engineer, AI engineer, ML engineer, softeare engineer, whatever it is, I will be able to take on this job.

<br>

<br>

I guess tomorrow would be the real day 1, but for now I think I have done enough research and set my self up for the rest of the days.
